Guide to deploy Steeltoe Stream applications in standalone mode. (#176)
SteeltoeOSS/Documentation: api/v3/stream/standalone-stream-rabbitmq.md

- The `ISink` application named `UsageCostLogger` consumes the `UsageCostDetail` object and logs the cost of the call and data.

### Add NuGet Reference

In each of the three following projects, in order to make it a Steeltoe streams application, you need to add a reference to the following packages:

| Package | Description | .NET Target |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `Steeltoe.Stream.StreamBase` | Provides StreamHost extensions, base functionality and dependency injection support | ASP.NET Core 3.1+ |
| `Steeltoe.Stream.Binder.RabbitMQ` | Binder that connects Steeltoe abstractions with RabbitMQ  | ASP.NET Core 3.1+ |

To add this type of NuGet to your project, add a `PackageReference` resembling the following:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="Steeltoe.Stream.StreamBase" Version="3.1.0-rc2"/>
</ItemGroup>
```

### Source

In this step, we create the `UsageDetailSender` Source project. Create a new .NET Console  project and add the NuGet packages as referred in the [Add NuGet reference](#Add-NuGet-Reference)

<!-- TODO: Initializr Instructions-->

#### Business Logic

Now we can create the code required for this application. To do so:

> 1.  Create a `UsageDetail` class in the project that looks like [UsageDetail.cs](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Samples/blob/main/Stream/UsageCost/UsageSender/UsageDetail.cs).

Reviewer: This link currently returns 404 ~ maybe just include the code here since it could maybe be done in <10 lines?

Reviewer: Ah, the 404 is likely because [the PR](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Samples/pull/206) isn't merged yet... the point stands about including the code directly and makes even more sense if it gets shared between the projects

Author: Added inline.

```csharp

using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Steeltoe.Messaging;
using Steeltoe.Messaging.Handler.Attributes;
using Steeltoe.Messaging.Support;
using Steeltoe.Stream.Attributes;
using Steeltoe.Stream.Messaging;
using System;
using System.Threading;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

namespace UsageSender
{
    [EnableBinding(typeof(ISource))]
    public class UsageGenerator : BackgroundService
    {
        private readonly ISource _source;
        private readonly ILogger<UsageGenerator> _logger;
        private static readonly Random RANDOM = new Random();
   
        public string ServiceName { get; set; } = "UsageGenerator";
        private string[] users = { "user1", "user2", "user3", "user4", "user5" };

        public UsageGenerator(ISource source, ILogger<UsageGenerator> logger)
        {
            _source = source;
            _logger = logger;
        }

        protected override async Task ExecuteAsync(CancellationToken stoppingToken)
        {
            while (!stoppingToken.IsCancellationRequested)
            {
                var message = GenerateAndSend();
                _source.Output.Send(message);
            

>                 await Task.Delay(5000, stoppingToken);

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this delay? I see it mentioned below, but adding a comment in the source would help it stick whether this is expected in end-user code or if it's relevant to this particular example or what the whole story is

            }
        }

        [SendTo(ISource.OUTPUT)]
        protected virtual IMessage GenerateAndSend()
        {
            var value = new UsageDetail
            {
                UserId = users[RANDOM.Next(5)],
                Duration = RANDOM.Next(300),
                Data = RANDOM.Next(700)
            };

            _logger.LogInformation("Sending: " + value);
            return MessageBuilder.WithPayload(value).Build();
        }
    }
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

The `[EnableBinding]` attribute indicates that you want to bind your application to messaging middleware.
The attribute takes one or more interfaces as a parameter, in this case, the [ISource](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/blob/main/src/Stream/src/Abstractions/Messaging/ISource.cs) interface that defines an output channel named `output`.
In the case of RabbitMQ, messages sent to the `output` channel are in turn sent to the RabbitMQ message broker by using a `TopicExchange`.

> Deriving from [BackgroundService](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/host/hosted-services?view=aspnetcore-5.0&tabs=visual-studio#backgroundservice-base-class) and calling `Task.Delay` makes the UsageGenerator a background task that gets called by the framework every `5` seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deriving from [BackgroundService](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/fundamentals/host/hosted-services#backgroundservice-base-class) and calling `Task.Delay` makes the UsageGenerator a background task that gets called by the framework every `5` seconds.
```
Let MSFT handle these bits automatically

##### Durable Queues

By default, the Steeltoe Stream consumer application creates an `anonymous` auto-delete queue.
This can result in a message not being stored and forwarded by the producer if the producer application started before the consumer application.
Even though the exchange is durable, we need a `durable` queue to be bound to the exchange for the message to be stored for later consumption.
Hence, for guaranteed message delivery, you need a `durable` queue.

To pre-create durable queues and bind them to the exchange, the producer application should set the following property:

```
spring:cloud:stream:bindings:<channelName>:producer:requiredGroups
```

The `requiredGroups` property accepts a comma-separated list of groups to which the producer must ensure message delivery.
When this property is set, a durable queue is created by using the `<exchange>.<requiredGroup>` format.

### Processor

In this step, we create the `UsageProcessor` processor. Create a new .NET Console  project and add the NuGet packages as referred in the [Add NuGet reference](#Add-NuGet-Reference)

#### Business Logic

Now we can create the code required for this application. To do so:

> 1.  Create a `UsageDetail` class in the project that looks like [UsageDetail.cs](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Samples/blob/main/Stream/UsageCost/UsageProcessor/UsageDetail.cs).

Reviewer: Should we not have a centralized definition of this class, shared via either Includes or a package? A package is likely excessive for the purposes here, but it's at least an opportunity to call out a best/better practice

Author: Not having it the same namespace shows the flexibility of the marshalling functionality of Streams. I suppose we could call it out, but I think outside scope of this somewhat trivial sample.

Reviewer: Not a dealbreaker for me in any direction here, but if this is indeed a feature I think it should be called out somewhere, especially if it appears to go against what would generally be considered best practice

Author: Yes I will call out this feature here - makes sense.

    The `UsageDetail` class contains `UserId`, `Data`, and `Duration` properties.

1.  Create the `UsageCostDetail` class that looks like [UsageCostDetail.cs](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Samples/blob/main/Stream/UsageCost/UsageProcessor/UsageCostDetail.cs)
    The `UsageCostDetail` class contains `UserId`, `CallCost`, and `DataCost` properties.

1.  Create the `UsageCostProcessor` class which receives the `UsageDetail` message, computes the call and data cost, and sends a `UsageCostDetail` message. The following listing shows the source code:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
using Steeltoe.Messaging.Handler.Attributes;
using Steeltoe.Stream.Attributes;
using Steeltoe.Stream.Messaging;
using System;

namespace UsageProcessor
{
    [EnableBinding(typeof(IProcessor))]
    public class UsageProcessor
    {
        private static ILogger<UsageProcessor> _logger;

        private double _ratePerSecond = 0.1;

        private double _ratePerMB = 0.05;

        public UsageProcessor(ILogger<UsageProcessor> logger)
        {

>             _logger = logger ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(logger));

Reviewer: Does this need to throw, or could we use `NullLogger.Instance`?

        }

        [StreamListener(IProcessor.INPUT)]
        [SendTo(IProcessor.OUTPUT)]
        public UsageCostDetail Handle(UsageDetail usageDetail)
        {
            return new UsageCostDetail
            {
                UserId = usageDetail.UserId,
                CallCost = usageDetail.Duration * _ratePerSecond,
                DataCost = usageDetail.Data * _ratePerMB
            };
        }
    }
}

```

> In the preceding application, the ` [EnableBinding]` attribute indicates that you want to bind your application to the messaging middleware. The attribute takes one or more interfaces as a parameter, in this case, the [IProcessor](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/blob/main/src/Stream/src/Abstractions/Messaging/IProcessor.cs) that defines and input and output channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding application, the `[EnableBinding]` attribute indicates that you want to bind your application to the messaging middleware. The attribute takes one or more interfaces as a parameter, in this case, the [IProcessor](https://github.com/SteeltoeOSS/Steeltoe/blob/main/src/Stream/src/Abstractions/Messaging/IProcessor.cs) that defines and input and output channel.
```

> The `[StreamListener]` attribute binds the application's `input` channel to the `Handle` method by converting the incoming JSON into `UsageDetail` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[StreamListener]` attribute binds the application's `input` channel to the `Handle` method and automatically deserializes the incoming JSON into `UsageDetail` object.
```

> The `[SendTo]` attribute sends the `Handle` method's output to the application's `output` channel, which is, in turn, sent to the a RabbitMQ message broker by using a `TopicExchange`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `[SendTo]` attribute sends the `Handle` method's output to the application's `output` channel, which is in turn, sent to the a RabbitMQ message broker by using a `TopicExchange`.
```

- The `requiredGroups` to specify the consumer groups to ensure the message delivery guarantee.

In `appsettings.json`, you can add the following properties:

```
{
    "spring": {
        "cloud": {
            "stream": {
                "bindings": {
                    "input": {
                        "destination": "usage-detail",
                        "group": "usage-cost-customer"
                    },
                    "output": {
                        "producer": {
                        "requiredGroups": "logger"
                        },
                        "destination": "usage-cost"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

- The `spring:cloud:stream:bindings:input:destination` and `spring:cloud:stream:bindings:input:group` properties bind the `UsageCostProcessor` object's `input` to the `usage-detail` RabbitMQ exchange through the `usage-detail.usage-cost-consumer` durable queue.
- The `spring:cloud:stream:bindings:output:destination` property binds the `UsageCostProcessor` object's output to the `usage-cost` RabbitMQ exchange.

> - The `spring"cloud:stream:bindings:output:producer:requiredGroups` property makes sure to create a durable queue named `usage-cost.logger`, which consumes from the `usage-cost` RabbitMQ exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `spring"cloud:stream:bindings:output:producer:requiredGroups` property tells Steeltoe to make sure a durable queue named `usage-cost.logger` exists for consumption of the `usage-cost` RabbitMQ exchange.
```

I'm not sure about the last bit, something still seems weird about it

> There are many configuration options that you can choose to extend/override to achieve the desired runtime behavior when using RabbitMQ as the message broker. The RabbitMQ-specific binder configuration properties are listed in the [RabbitMQ-binder documentation](./rabbit-binder.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many configuration options that you can choose to extend or override to achieve the desired runtime behavior when using RabbitMQ as the message broker. The RabbitMQ-specific binder configuration properties are listed in the [RabbitMQ-binder documentation](./rabbit-binder.md)
```

### Sink

> In this step, we create the `UsageCostLogger` sink.

Reviewer: Maybe all of the project creations should just be done in a single step? That would also be a way to resolve duplication/repeated referrals to the nuget step

When you deploy these three applications (`UsageDetailSender`, `UsageCostProcessor`, and `UsageCostLogger`), the flow of message is as follows:

```
UsageDetailSender -> UsageCostProcessor -> UsageCostLogger
```

The `UsageDetailSender` source application's output is connected to the `UsageCostProcessor` processor application's input.
The `UsageCostProcessor` application's output is connected to the `UsageCostLogger` sink application's input.

When these applications run, the `RabbitMQ` binder binds the applications' output and input boundaries into the corresponding exchanges and queues at RabbitMQ message broker.

### Local

You can run the applications as standalone applications on your `local` environment.

To install and run the `RabbitMQ` docker image, run the following command:

```bash
docker run -d --hostname rabbitmq --name rabbitmq -p 15672:15672 -p 5672:5672 rabbitmq:3.7.14-management
```

Once installed, you can log in to the RabbitMQ management console on your local machine on [http://localhost:15672](http://localhost:15672).
You can use the default account username and password: `guest` and `guest`.

#### Running the `UsageDetailSender` Source

> By using the [pre-defined](#configuration) configuration properties(along with a unique server port) for `UsageSender`, you can run the application, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the [pre-defined](#configuration) configuration properties (along with a unique server port) for `UsageSender`, you can run the application, as follows:
```

```
cd UsageSender
dotnet build && dotnet run --framework net5.0
```

When this application is running, you can see that the `usage-detail` RabbitMQ exchange is created and a queue named `usage-detail.usage-cost-consumer` is bound to this exchange, as the following example shows:

<img src="~/api/v3/stream/images/standalone-rabbitmq-usage-detail-sender.png" alt="Standalone Usage Detail" width="100%">

Also, if you click on the `Queues` and check the queue `usage-detail.usage-cost-consumer`, you can see the messages being consumed and stored in this durable queue, as the following example shows:

<img src="~/api/v3/stream/images/standalone-rabbitmq-usage-detail-sender-message-guarantee.png" alt="Standalone Usage Detail Sender RabbitMQ Message Guarantee" width="100%">

When configuring the consumer applications for this `Source` application, you can set the `group` binding property to connect to the corresponding queue.

[[note]]

> | If you do not set the `requiredGroups` property, you can see that there is no `queue` for consuming the messages from the `usage-detail` exchange and, therefore, the messages are lost if the consumer is not up before this application is started. 

Reviewer: I haven't seen this formatting before, what does this do?

Author: copy paste  - will fix it.

Author: fixed

```cmd
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user3", "CallCost": "$12.90", "DataCost": "$28.95" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$17.40", "DataCost": "$14.45" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$7.50", "DataCost": "$9.45" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user5", "CallCost": "$17.40", "DataCost": "$30.80" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user1", "CallCost": "$28.80", "DataCost": "$6.75" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user5", "CallCost": "$8.50", "DataCost": "$10.00" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user2", "CallCost": "$17.30", "DataCost": "$19.65" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user3", "CallCost": "$5.90", "DataCost": "$13.25" }
```

### Cloud Foundry

> This section walks you through how to deploy the `UsageDetailSender`, `UsageCostProcessor`, and `UsageCostLogger` applications on PWS CloudFoundry environment.

Reviewer: PWS is EOL...

usage-sender      started           web:1/1     usage-sender.apps.pcfone.io
```

```cmd
   2021-06-08T15:39:57.62-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
   2021-06-08T15:39:57.62-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT       Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$21.30", "DataCost": "$31.40" }
   2021-06-08T15:40:02.63-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
   2021-06-08T15:40:02.63-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT       Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user3", "CallCost": "$1.30", "DataCost": "$27.20" }
   2021-06-08T15:40:07.63-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
   2021-06-08T15:40:07.63-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT       Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user2", "CallCost": "$5.60", "DataCost": "$29.30" }
   2021-06-08T15:40:12.62-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
   2021-06-08T15:40:12.62-0400 [APP/PROC/WEB/0] OUT       Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$0.40", "DataCost": "$26.15" }
```

### Running on Kubernetes

This section walks you through how to deploy the three Stream Stream applications on Kubernetes.

#### Setting up the Kubernetes cluster

> For this example, we need a running [Kubernetes cluster](%currentPath%/installation/kubernetes/#creating-a-kubernetes-cluster). For this example, we deploy to `Docker for Windows Desktop with Integrated Kubernetes`.

Reviewer: This link doesn't look right

Author: removed PWS reference

##### Verifying Kubernetes is running

To verify that you have a running Kubernetes instance, run the following command (show with sample output):

```bash

> λ kubectl config get-contexts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl config get-contexts
```

CURRENT   NAME             CLUSTER          AUTHINFO         NAMESPACE
*         docker-desktop   docker-desktop   docker-desktop

> λ kubectl config use-context docker-desktop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl config use-context docker-desktop
```

#### Verifying the Deployment

To verify the deployment, use the following command to tail the log for the `usage-cost-logger` sink:

```bash
kubectl logs -f usage-logger
```

You should see messages similar to the following streaming:

```cmd
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user3", "CallCost": "$12.90", "DataCost": "$28.95" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$17.40", "DataCost": "$14.45" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user4", "CallCost": "$7.50", "DataCost": "$9.45" }
info: UsageLogger.UsageLogger[0]
      Received UsageCostDetail { "UserId" "user5", "CallCost": "$17.40", "DataCost": "$30.80" }
```

#### Cleaning Up

To delete the stream, we can use the label we created earlier, as follows:

```bash
kubectl delete pod -l app=usage-cost-stream
```

To uninstall RabbitMQ, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl delete all -l app=rabbitmq
```

## What's Next

> You can use Spring Cloud Data Flow to deploy the three applications, as detailed in [Steeltoe Stream Processing using Spring Cloud Data Flow](./data-flow-stream).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Spring Cloud Data Flow to deploy the three applications, as detailed in [Steeltoe Stream Processing using Spring Cloud Data Flow](./data-flow-stream.md).
```
